Blog: Repositioning PostHog (#18852)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/repositioning-posthog.mdx

---
date: "2026-07-23"
title: "Repositioning PostHog"
author:
  - charles-cook
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/selfdriving_3f4c644a54.png
featuredImageType: full
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - PostHog news
  - Inside PostHog
---

As PostHog enters its [next chapter](https://posthog.com/blog/posthogs-next-chapter), we have spent the last 6 weeks going all in repositioning as the company that makes your product self-driving. This is how we are specifically doing it, and how it's going. If you are trying to position or reposition your product, hopefully this will help you!

## What does repositioning actually mean?

‘Positioning’ is when you set the context for how you want your product to be seen by customers. You’re trying to get across [how your product is the best in the world](https://www.aprildunford.com/post/an-introduction-to-positioning) at something that your ICP actually cares about.

‘Repositioning’ is when you change your positioning (woah). It’s very normal to regularly review your positioning as the world around you changes. 

## Why did PostHog need repositioning?

> We originally positioned PostHog as open source product analytics for developers back in 2020. Over time, we’ve expanded to position ourselves as a suite of tools that product engineers use to build better products. Over the years we've used terms like ‘Product OS’ and 'customer data infrastructure' that tried to capture this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We originally positioned PostHog as open source product analytics for developers back in 2020. Over time, we've expanded to position ourselves as a suite of tools that product engineers use to build better products. We've used terms like "Product OS" and "customer data infrastructure" that tried to capture this. 
```

Reviewer: Just to avoid having over time -> over the years back to back

A large part of positioning comes down to some sets of _specific words_ you are going to repeat everywhere until you are bored of them. They need to be specific and limited because our audience's attention is limited. Once your team is bored of hearing them from you, chances are that your customers have only just started to internalize them. 

## Where is PostHog playing now if not analytics?

We’re now positioning ourselves as part of the market for self-driving software product platforms. We don’t have a perfect competitor in terms of overlap, but some are _reasonably_ close if you squint), especially if they are shipping 'self-healing' or 'self-improving' software. 

The *truest* competitor for our ICP that we should care about is the old way of working. Triaging errors, watching replays back, writing the PR yourself, re-prompting an agent for every change, connecting your warehouse to your analytics to your coding tool - these are the habits that we are offering an alternative to.

## Why are you inventing new concepts like self-driving and context warehouse?

> When you're playing in a fuzzily defined or emerging market, you enter the realm of category creation. This is different to most positioning, where you are typically in a more established market trying to differentiate yourself in relation to a bunch of pre-existing, well-understood companies and products. Category creation is fun, high risk, and hard to pull off. Rather than building 'Uber for dogs', you are trying to change people's mental model for how a particular, established thing should work. Part of category creation sometimes requires you to come up with new terms to describe the thing you are doing, because that thing doesn't exist yet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're playing in a fuzzily defined or emerging market, you enter the realm of category creation. This is different to most positioning, where you are in an established market differentiating yourself against existing companies and products. Category creation is fun, high risk, and hard to pull off. Rather than building "Uber for dogs", you are trying to change people's mental model for how an established thing should work. This sometimes requires you to come up with new terms to describe what're you are doing, because it doesn't exist yet. 
```

---
date: "2026-07-23"

> title: "PostHog Code and the self-driving product"

Reviewer: needs a real title of some sort
```suggestion
title: "Repositioning PostHog"
```

author:
  - charles-cook
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/selfdriving_3f4c644a54.png
featuredImageType: full
category: PostHog news
tags:
  - PostHog news
  - Inside PostHog
---

> As PostHog enters its [next chapter](https://posthog.com/blog/posthogs-next-chapter), we have spent the last 6 weeks going all in on repositioning PostHog as the company that makes your product self-driving. This is how we are specifically doing it, and how it's going. If you are trying to position or reposition your product, hopefully this will help you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As PostHog enters its [next chapter](https://posthog.com/blog/posthogs-next-chapter), we have spent the last 6 weeks going all in repositioning as the company that makes your product self-driving. This is how we are specifically doing it, and how it's going. If you are trying to position or reposition your product, hopefully this will help you!
```

> **‘Repositioning’ sounds like a marketing buzzword - what does it actually mean?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does repositioning actually mean?
```

Reviewer: One other point, does repositioning mean anything to the product or just our marketing? I sort of assumed there would be a product component.

Author: Can you expand on what you think a product component might entail? (It is generally a marketing activity, that follows the product)

> ‘Positioning’ is when you set the context in which you want your product to be seen through the eyes of customers. You’re trying to get across [how your product is the best in the world](https://www.aprildunford.com/post/an-introduction-to-positioning) at doing something that your ICP actually cares about.

Reviewer: Wordy sentence
```suggestion
‘Positioning’ is when you set the context for how you want your product to be seen by customers. You’re trying to get across [how your product is the best in the world](https://www.aprildunford.com/post/an-introduction-to-positioning) at something that your ICP actually cares about.
```

‘Repositioning’ is when you change your positioning (woah). It’s very normal to regularly review your positioning as the world around you changes. 

> **What is PostHog doing?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why did PostHog need repositioning?
```

We originally positioned PostHog as open source product analytics for developers back in 2020. Over time, we’ve expanded to position ourselves as a suite of tools that product engineers use to build better products. Over the years we've used terms like ‘Product OS’ and 'customer data infrastructure' that tried to capture this. 

> Despite this, most people still see PostHog as ‘analytics++’ today even though we make money from a lot of different products. In part this was because we did our repositioning incrementally, but mostly it’s because repositioning is just _hard_, especially if you don't go all in. 

Reviewer: Do you want to talk about some of the ways we did this incrementally?
- We updated website copy
- We ran ads
- We wrote blogs
- But never all at once

```suggestion
Despite this, most people still see PostHog as ‘analytics++’ today even though we make money from a lot of different products. In part, this was because we did our repositioning incrementally, but mostly it’s because repositioning is just _hard_, especially if you don't go all in. 
```

Reviewer: What does "all-in" mean? I'd like a tiny bit more on how this time is different.

> **So what’s the deal with self-driving?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What’s the deal with self-driving?
```

Self-driving is now how we are positioning ourselves. We are going all in on this in an _uncomfortable_ way - this means putting it front and center on our website, but also focusing on it in [content](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/why-were-bullish-on-loops), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PfWVVI9ALd8), [influencers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eHyEkZV2wY), [events](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:ugcPost:7479840334856843265/) etc.

> > We will probably confuse some people for a bit. This might hurt signups. We are willing to tolerate some short term pain, because we believe our long term success (and revenue!) depends on convincing people that you build _with_ PostHog, not add it on afterwards. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We realize this will probably confuse some people for a bit. It might hurt signups. We are willing to tolerate some short term pain, because we believe our long term success (and revenue!) depends on convincing people that you build _with_ PostHog, not add it on afterwards. 
```

Reviewer: I suspect a problem a lot of people run into is that their execs want change now, but are not willing to take the hit in terms of growth, etc. but I definitely don't feel that here. Might be worth including that we're bought in on this from top -> down and realistic the potential negative consequences.

> **What are the specific words PostHog is using to describe stuff?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How PostHog is positioned now
```

> You can see more in [our public handbook](https://posthog.com/handbook/brand/foundations#the-standard-description), but here’s the tl;dr:

Reviewer: Can you give me a sentence on why the following words matter? Why do words = position?

> Positioning because comes down to some sets of specific words you are going to repeat everywhere until you are bored of them. They need to be specific and limited because our audience's attention is limited.

- **PostHog** makes your product self-driving.   
- **Products** are the surfaces a customer adopts to access self-driving. Today that's **PostHog Web**, **PostHog Slack**, **PostHog MCP**, **PostHog CLI**, and **PostHog Desktop**. **PostHog Mobile** is coming.   
- **Tools** are the capabilities you access through the products: product analytics, session replay, feature flags, experiments, error tracking, surveys, web analytics, and so on. Tools can be as granular as annotations or comments even.  
- **Context** is the data that feeds the self-driving loop: events, recordings, errors, and logs from PostHog, plus other business data (Slack, code, Notion, support tickets etc.)  
- **Context warehouse** is the managed data warehouse plus the full context-ingestion pipeline (modelling, data pipelines, batch exports, and so on).

> **Why are you inventing new concepts like ‘self-driving’ and ‘context warehouse’? Doesn't that make your job harder?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why are you inventing new concepts like self-driving and context warehouse?
```

Reviewer: Also, how does this relate to positioning?

When a term has been widely adopted in the industry, we will use that term - we would not try and redefine ‘MCP’ as something else for example. 

However, ‘self-driving’ and ‘context warehouse’ describe things that don’t really exist today, or where there isn’t consensus yet. You may have heard the concept of ‘self-healing’ or ‘self-improving’ software for example, but these are very far from industry standards. 

> We have to work really hard to educate people about these new terms, to the point of feeling like we’re repeating ourselves too much. We're confident we can succeed because we have some prior experience helping to popularize the concept of ‘product engineer’. We didn’t invent the term, but were one of the earliest people to hire product engineers, [wrote about it](https://posthog.com/product-engineer/what-is-a-product-engineer) a bunch (first page on Google when you search the term), and now it feels pretty standard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have to work really hard to educate people about these new terms, to the point of feeling like we’re repeating ourselves too much. We're confident we can succeed because we have some prior experience helping to popularize the concept of ‘product engineer’. We didn’t invent the term, but were one of the earliest people to hire product engineers, [wrote about it](/product-engineer/what-is-a-product-engineer) a bunch (top of Google when you search the term), and now it feels pretty standard. 
```

> **So what market is PostHog playing in now if it’s not analytics? Who do we see as our competition?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Where is PostHog playing now if not analytics?
```

> We’re now positioning ourselves as part of the market for autonomous AI systems. We don’t have a perfect competitor in terms of overlap (some are _reasonably_ close if you squint), but the *truest* competitor for our ICP that we should care about is the old way of working. Triaging errors, watching replays back, writing the PR yourself, re-prompting an agent for every change, connecting your warehouse to your analytics to your coding tool - these are the habits that we are offering an alternative to.

Reviewer: "autonomous AI systems" sounds very corporate

> We’re now positioning ourselves as part of the market for autonomous AI systems. We don’t have a perfect competitor in terms of overlap (some are _reasonably_ close if you squint), but the *truest* competitor for our ICP that we should care about is the old way of working. Triaging errors, watching replays back, writing the PR yourself, re-prompting an agent for every change, connecting your warehouse to your analytics to your coding tool - these are the habits that we are offering an alternative to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re now positioning ourselves as part of the market for autonomous AI systems. We don’t have a perfect competitor in terms of overlap (some are _reasonably_ close if you squint). 

The *truest* competitor for our ICP that we should care about is the old way of working. Triaging errors, watching replays back, writing the PR yourself, re-prompting an agent for every change, connecting your warehouse to your analytics to your coding tool - these are the habits that we are offering an alternative to.
```

> **Are you open to changing your minds about this?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Are you open to changing your minds about this?
```

Maybe one day! But not right now - internally, we’ve had plenty of rounds of feedback and we’ve all had to disagree and commit to some extent to get this out there. Debating product names is the perfect way to distract your entire team for hours!

Part of repositioning is that you _really_ have to commit to it for several months to see if it’s landing. And of course, we’ll change course if things look like they’re going wrong. Early signs are promising from some of our best customers, and people are starting to talk about it on places like X. But it’s only been a few weeks, and the majority of mentions still talk about us in the context of analytics. We'll get there!

As has always been the case, we will know whether we need to change course by talking to our users and [making something they want](https://paulgraham.com/good.html). 

> **This was mildly useful, but I'd appreciate a book recommendation.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## This was mildly useful, but I'd appreciate a book recommendation
```

There are a million books about positioning. They are all compromised in some way. I speed ran April Dunford's process in a week from [Obviously Awesome](https://www.aprildunford.com/books), and it's worked well enough for us!

<div className="dark:bg-dark bg-accent border border-input p-4 rounded">
    <p className="!mt-0">
        PostHog Code is in{' '}
        <span className="rounded-sm bg-highlight py-0.5 px-1 text-xs font-bold text-red dark:text-yellow">
            Beta
        </span>
        . Join the waitlist to get early access.
    </p>
    <div className="max-w-md">
        <WaitlistForm confetti={false} />
    </div>

> </div>

Reviewer: Intentional? 
```suggestion
```
